# data_bootcamp_final_project
This project was completed by Mohannad Alramlawi and Zeyad Dahab in partial fulfilment of ECON-UB.0232, Data Bootcamp, Spring 2019. I certify that the NYU Stern Honor Code applies to this project. In particular, I have: Clearly acknowledged the work and efforts of others when submitting written work as our own. The incorporation of the work of others–including but not limited to their ideas, data, creative expression, and direct quotations (which should be designated with quotation marks), or paraphrasing thereof– has been fully and appropriately referenced using notations both in the text and the bibliography. And I understand that: Submitting the same or substantially similar work in multiple courses, either in the same semester or in a different semester, without the express approval of all instructors is strictly forbidden. I acknowledge that a failure to abide by NYU Stern Honor Code will result in a failing grade for the project and course.
Project Description: This project focuses on the economic effects of the Arab Spring on different countries in the MENA region. In order to study those effects, several variables were utilized, including GDP, Gross National Savings, Inflation, and Volume of Exports. Those variables have been analyzed between the years 2004 and 2018, paying special attention to the year 2011 (when the Arab spring started). First, a series of graphs -each with the variable "year" on the x-axis and the different economic indicators listed above on the y-axis- were generated for the region as a whole. This gave us a general overview of the entire region. Then, the same graphs were generated, only this time each country was explored separately. We started with the countries that experienced revolts, including Egypt, Tunisia, and Libya. Afterwards, we looked at the countries that were indirectly affected by the Arab Spring, including Saudi Arabia, Jordan, and Lebanon. Different methods of visualization have been used throughout the project, including graphing and mapping wherever possible.
